We finished installation and I now want to finally dive into adding some components so that we get a
feeling for how this works.
If you go to the components page on dangler material page you see there are loads of components you
can use and we will dive into quite a lot of them throughout the course.
Let's start with a Robert simple one just to see how it works.
Let's start with a normal button.
You can find it down there under buttons and indicators and if you click on it this is how you can dive
into components.
You got an article with an overview over component where the general usage is explained and how it works
what the idea behind it is.
You then have an API.
With the detailed instructions the detailed guidance about the different attributes or properties you
can bind events which are emitted and so on.
And one or more examples as you can see here for the button we got quite a lot of different ways of
using it.
Let's start using it in a very simple way.
And let's expand the source code of this example to see how it's used as can see for the button here
and that's different for the different material the signed components for the button.
We just use a regular button where we then add is Matt button attribute.
Now does attribute is actually the selector of the material button component behind the scenes.
We don't see that but I can tell you that this is the case and this will then turn a regular button
into a button that looks and behaves like a material designed button.
So with this ripple effect and so on.
And actually if you scroll down you can see that you can't just use matte button or you got more options
to be precise.
You could also add match rased but then so on for different styles.
Let's take a look.
Let's go to the app component HDMI file and delete everything there.
And let's add a new element which is just a regular button like this.
Click me the Judas button I'll add Matt button as we saw it like this.
And now let's save this and run ngi serve.
Now this will spin up the development server here in this project and will host and run our application
here or wherever I get an error and if we have a look at the error message it's telling me to the contrary
sold the prebuilt theme.
This might be a bug because actually the pop should be correct but turns out that you can fix this error
by removing this sign here.
Distilled at the beginning if you do this it compiles successfully so do that if you face the same error.
With that let's go back and let's open localhost 4200.
And you should see a button this button here can be clicked.
But be honest it's not looking dead material design like.
Now here we don't even get an error message but actually something is wrong in our project for every
material design component you want to use.
And we just don't get an error here because this one happens to be added as an attribute and not as
an element.
We have such components too.
So for every component that we want to use we have to add an import.
We have to import a module and I will do this in the material that Manahil file.
You could do it in the app module but I want to keep all my material component related imports in this
extra file.
So here I will add an import statement at top and import mat button module from at angular slash material
like this.
We don't have to add this module here to imports.
But module and to exports we have to add it to export so that we can use it in a number module where
we import this material module.
In our case that's Yapp module.
With that the button is unlocked.
Now we save that all of a sudden it looks differently.
And if I click this we got this ripple effect.
Now I can also show you dead.
We can use a different way of using this by adding Matt rased button here is like this.
And you can find Doesn't the documentation I show you a second ago now does all of a sudden looks like
a race button and we can also give this a special color.
Now this is special to the button here and you see under filming that you can set a color property.
This is not possible on every component but it is possible on this one so we can add a color property
and set this to accent for example all possible values can be found in the documentation you can access
that primary accent or worn.
Now if you go back you'll see it has this axent color all of a sudden this nice ripple effect.
And this is our first material design component used.
Now we get more components of course.
And another component which I want to add is the Iken component we did add Aikins after all.
Now kits are used in a really simple way.
We use the math I can component and now here you see an example for a component it's used like an h
tim l element and then the name of the can you want to use and you can find all available Aikins by
simply googling for material Aikins and opening the page that you find thereafter.
And on this page you can search but you can also scroll down and see the icons.
And if you click on one it's dys name here which you want to use as I can name a name with a space you
want to replace the space with an underscore.
Let's see this in action let's go back to the fitness tracker.
And let's actually add ikan to our button.
So for that I'll add Matt.
I can hear inside of the bottom and actually for this button if you go back to the button page you would
then also add the mad icon button selector here instead of match race button so that I can button color
X on this.
OK and let's add does home symbol here.
For example if you save this and you go back to your running application you should get an error window
because Mad I can this new selector I added this element here is unknown and you learn how to fix it.
So let's go ahead and fix it on your own case you don't know how it works.
We have to add an import to material module.
We have to import a mat ikan module and that's a general name how these modules are named.
They're basically de-select or just in this notation with us starting uppercase character and all Suppe
words starting with upper case characters and then we add this also to imports and exports.
So mad I can module is added to both.
And with that if we go back to Paris gone and we got a button that now is an icon cool.
And this is how we work with the material components.
Now of course we're not here to just lay around and use all these icons and all these components you
find in the official documentation.
This is a good source though for you to learn more about the components you need in your app.
But hey we wanted to build a project in this course so let's do so now.
And let's start building something more useful and start building a real angular app.